docs: High Availability Setup documentation (#2715)
kubernetes/kube-state-metrics: README.md

Other metrics can be sharded via [Horizontal sharding](#horizontal-sharding).

### High Availability

For high availability, run multiple kube-state-metrics replicas with anti-affinity rules to prevent single points of failure. Configure 2 replicas, anti-affinity rules on hostname, rolling update strategy with `maxUnavailable: 1`, and a PodDisruptionBudget with `minAvailable: 1`.

> When using multiple replicas, Prometheus will scrape all instances resulting in duplicate metrics with different instance labels. Handle deduplication in queries using `avg without(instance) (metric_name)`. Brief inconsistencies may occur during state transitions but resolve quickly as replicas sync with the API server.

Reviewer: This depends on how you scrape the metrics with prometheus, on a pod level or a service level.

Author: yeah right, I'll update the section to clarify the differences.

> When scraping the individual pods directly in an HA setup, Prometheus will ingest duplicate metrics distinguished only by the instance label. This requires you to deduplicate the data in your queries, for example, by using `max without(instance) (your_metric)`. The correct aggregation function (max, sum, avg, etc.) is important and depends on the metric type, as using the wrong one can produce incorrect values for timestamps or during brief state transitions.

Reviewer: Is Pod Scraping that common?  I would assume most folks will scrape at the service level via a ServiceMonitor / Prometheus-Operator or similar.

For high availability, run multiple kube-state-metrics replicas to prevent a single point of failure. A common setup uses at least 2 replicas, pod anti-affinity rules to ensure they run on different nodes, and a PodDisruptionBudget (PDB) with `minAvailable: 1` to protect against voluntary disruptions.

```yaml
apiVersion: apps/v1
kind: Deployment
metadata:
  name: kube-state-metrics
spec:
  replicas: 2
  template:
    spec:
      affinity:
        podAntiAffinity:
          preferredDuringSchedulingIgnoredDuringExecution:
          - weight: 100
            podAffinityTerm:
              labelSelector:
                matchLabels:
                  app: kube-state-metrics
              topologyKey: kubernetes.io/hostname
      containers:
      - name: kube-state-metrics
        image: registry.k8s.io/kube-state-metrics/kube-state-metrics:v2.10.0
        ports:
        - containerPort: 8080
          name: http-metrics
---
apiVersion: policy/v1
kind: PodDisruptionBudget
metadata:
  name: kube-state-metrics-pdb
spec:
  minAvailable: 1
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      app: kube-state-metrics
```

> Most users will scrape at the service level via a ServiceMonitor / Prometheus-Operator or similar. When scraping the individual pods directly in an HA setup, Prometheus will ingest duplicate metrics distinguished only by the instance label. This requires you to deduplicate the data in your queries, for example, by using `max without(instance) (your_metric)`. The correct aggregation function (max, sum, avg, etc.) is important and depends on the metric type, as using the wrong one can produce incorrect values for timestamps or during brief state transitions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If metrics get scraped at the service level via a ServiceMonitor (Prometheus-Operator) or similar, you won't need to differentiate metrics.
When scraping the individual pods directly in an HA setup, Prometheus will ingest duplicate metrics distinguished only by the instance label. This means the data in your queries will need to be deduplicated, for example, by using `max without(instance) (your_metric)`. The correct aggregation function (max, sum, avg, etc.) is important and depends on the metric type, as using the wrong one can produce incorrect values for timestamps or during brief state transitions.
```
